Address Lars's second DISCUSS comment (limit the number of free registrations) (#22)
mirjak/draft-kuehlewind-shmoo-remote-fee: draft-ietf-shmoo-remote-fee.md

These and other operating costs of the IETF are also cross-financed by income generated through
meeting fees. The intention of this document and the principle stated herein is not to make participation
free for everyone but to always have a free option that a potential
attendee can apply for without any barriers other than
the registration procedure itself.
Note that as long as the meeting costs are otherwise funded,
additional remote participants can usually be added without increasing expenses.

It is not in scope for this document or the SHMOO working group to make suggestions for changing
the IETF's overall funding model. This is the responsibility of the IETF LLC Board taking agreed principles
like the one proposed in this document into account.

> Of course, part of this responsibility can include putting a limitation on the amount
> of free participation.
> One possible reason for doing so is the concern that unlimited free remote
> participation might adversely affect the number of paying participants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If free remote participation is determined to adversely affect the number of paying participants
or the cost of free participation emerges to a signification factor,
the LLC might implement additional measures to limit on the amount of free registrations.
However, as discussed in the next section, assessment of eligibility is hard and a general limit
in the number of available free registrations can impact
eligible people unfairly and therefore impact openness negatively.
```

This is my proposal. I think this give the LLC some room to do something if needed, however, it also discusses a bit the negative impact of a limit, which I find important.

Reviewer: As proposed by Lars we could add another sentence saying something like:

`LLC is expected to publicly announce if and why any measures to limit free registrations are implemented.`

Author: I took your change and added a version of Lars's text as an additional commit.

These and other operating costs of the IETF are also cross-financed by income generated through
meeting fees. The intention of this document and the principle stated herein is not to make participation

> free for everyone but to always have a free option that a potential

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
free for everyone, but to always offer a free remote participation option that a potential
```

attendee can apply for without any barriers other than
the registration procedure itself.

> Note that as long as the meeting costs are otherwise funded,
> additional remote participants can usually be added without increasing expenses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As long as the overall meeting expenses are covered by paid registrations, sponsorships and other sources of revenue,
additional remote participants usually impose very low additional expenses.
```

It is not in scope for this document or the SHMOO working group to make suggestions for changing
the IETF's overall funding model. This is the responsibility of the IETF LLC Board taking agreed principles
like the one proposed in this document into account.

> If free remote participation is determined to adversely affect the number of paying participants
> or the cost of free participation emerges to a signification factor,
> the LLC might implement additional measures to limit the amount of free registrations.
> If the LLC decides to do this, they should make their decision and rationale known.
> Note that, as discussed in the next section, assessment of eligibility is hard and a general limit
> on the number of available free registrations can impact
> eligible people unfairly and therefore impact openness negatively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If unlimited free remote participation is determined to adversely affect the number of paying participants
or the cost of free participation emerges to a signification factor,
the LLC might implement additional measures to manage these costs.
If the LLC decides to do this, they should make their decision and rationale known to the community.
As discussed in the next section, assessment of eligibility is difficult and any limit
on the number of available free registrations can cause unfairness and impact
negatively impact openness.
```

the viability of the IETF and the need of IETF participants to work productively within the IETF can be warranted.

The LLC is responsible to ensure the financial stability of the IETF and therefore should monitor

> trends in the use of the free participation option that could endanger the viability of the IETF and, if necessary, limit their use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
trends in the use of the free participation option that could endanger the viability of the IETF and, if necessary, manage the associated costs.
```
